                   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


  This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates
the terms and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public
License, supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

  0. Additional Definitions.

  As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU
General Public License.

  "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License,
other than an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.

  An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided
by the Library, but which is not otherwise based on the Library.
Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode
of using an interface provided by the Library.

  A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an
Application with the Library.  The particular version of the Library
with which the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked
Version".

  The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source code
for portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are
based on the Application, and not on the Linked Version.

  The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the
object code and/or source code for the Application, including any data
and utility programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from the
Application, but excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

  1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License
without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  2. Conveying Modified Versions.

  If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a
facility refers to a function or data to be supplied by an Application
that uses the facility (other than as an argument passed when the
facility is invoked), then you may convey a copy of the modified
version:

   a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to
   ensure that, in the event an Application does not supply the
   function or data, the facility still operates, and performs
   whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful, or

   b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of
   this License applicable to that copy.

  3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

  The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from
a header file that is part of the Library.  You may convey such object
code under terms of your choice, provided that, if the incorporated
material is not limited to numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, or small macros, inline functions and templates
(ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the
   Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

  4. Combined Works.

  You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that,
taken together, effectively do not restrict modification of the
portions of the Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications, if you also do each of
the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that
   the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

   c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during
   execution, include the copyright notice for the Library among
   these notices, as well as a reference directing the user to the
   copies of the GNU GPL and this license document.

   d) Do one of the following:

       0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this
       License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a form
       suitable for, and under terms that permit, the user to
       recombine or relink the Application with a modified version of
       the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work, in the
       manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying
       Corresponding Source.

       1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
       Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run time
       a copy of the Library already present on the user's computer
       system, and (b) will operate properly with a modified version
       of the Library that is interface-compatible with the Linked
       Version.

   e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise
   be required to provide such information under section 6 of the
   GNU GPL, and only to the extent that such information is
   necessary to install and execute a modified version of the
   Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
   Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If
   you use option 4d0, the Installation Information must accompany
   the Minimal Corresponding Source and Corresponding Application
   Code. If you use option 4d1, you must provide the Installation
   Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL
   for conveying Corresponding Source.)

  5. Combined Libraries.

  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side by side in a single library together with other library
facilities that are not Applications and are not covered by this
License, and convey such a combined library under terms of your
choice, if you do both of the following:

   a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based
   on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities,
   conveyed under the terms of this License.

   b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it
   is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
   accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Library as you received it specifies that a certain numbered version
of the GNU Lesser General Public License "or any later version"
applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that published version or of any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you
received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser
General Public License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide
whether future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License shall
apply, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version is
permanent authorization for you to choose that version for the
Library.

			DCE Copyright Notice

        The information contained within this document is subject to
        change without notice.

        OSF MAKES NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WITH REGARD TO THIS
        MATERIAL, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
        WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
        PURPOSE.

        OSF shall not be liable for errors contained herein, or for
        any direct or indirect, incidental, special or consequential
        damages in connection with the furnishing, performance, or
        use of this material.

        (c) Copyright 1995, 1996 Open Software Foundation, Inc.

        This documentation and the software to which it relates are
        derived in part from materials supplied by the following:

           + (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996
             Digital Equipment Corporation

           + (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996
             Hewlett-Packard Company

           + (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995,
             1996 Transarc Corporation

           + (c) Copyright 1990, 1991 Siemens Nixdorf
             Informationssysteme AG

           + (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996
             International Business Machines Corporation

           + (c) Copyright 1988, 1989 Massachusetts Institute of
             Technology

           + (c) Copyright 1988, 1989 The Regents of the University of
             California

           + (c) Copyright 1995, 1996 Hitachi, Ltd.

        All Rights Reserved
        Printed in the U.S.A.

        THIS DOCUMENT AND THE SOFTWARE DESCRIBED HEREIN ARE
        FURNISHED UNDER A LICENSE, AND MAY BE USED AND COPIED ONLY
        IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF SUCH LICENSE AND WITH THE
        INCLUSION OF THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICE. TITLE TO AND
        OWNERSHIP OF THE DOCUMENT AND SOFTWARE REMAIN WITH OSF OR
        ITS LICENSORS.

        Open Software Foundation, OSF, the OSF logo, OSF/1,
        OSF/Motif, and Motif are registered trademarks of the Open
        Software Foundation, Inc.

        DEC, DIGITAL, and ULTRIX are registered trademarks of
        Digital Equipment Corporation.

        DECstation 3100 and DECnet are trademarks of Digital
        Equipment Corporation.

        HP, Hewlett-Packard, and LaserJet are trademarks of
        Hewlett-Packard Company.

        Network Computing System and PasswdEtc are registered
        trademarks of Hewlett-Packard Company.

        AFS and Transarc are registered trademarks of the Transarc
        Corporation.

        Episode is a registered trademark of the Transarc
        Corporation.

        Ethernet is a registered trademark of Xerox Corporation.

        AIX and RISC System/6000 are registered trademarks of
        International Business Machines Corporation.

        IBM is a registered  trademark of International Business
        Machines Corporation.

        DIR-X is a trademark of Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
        AG.

        MX300i is a trademark of Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme
        AG.

        NFS, Network File System, SunOS and Sun Microsystems are
        trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

        UNIX is a registered trademark in the US and other
        countries, licensed exclusively through X/Open Company
        Limited.

        X/Open is a registered trademark, and the X device is a
        trademark, of X/Open Company Limited.

        PostScript is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

        Microsoft, MS-DOS, and Windows are registered trademarks of
        Microsoft Corp.

        NetWare is a registered trademark of Novell, Inc.

        FOR U.S. GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERS REGARDING THIS DOCUMENTATION
        AND THE ASSOCIATED SOFTWARE

        These notices shall be marked on any reproduction of this
        data, in whole or in part.

        NOTICE:  Notwithstanding any other lease or license that may
        pertain to, or accompany the delivery of, this computer
        software, the rights of the Government regarding its use,
        reproduction and disclosure are as set forth in Section
        52.227-19 of the FARS Computer Software-Restricted Rights
        clause.

        RESTRICTED RIGHTS NOTICE:  Use, duplication, or disclosure
        by the Government is subject to the restrictions as set
        forth in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical
        Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 52.227-7013.

        RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND:  Use, duplication or disclosure by
        the Government is subject to restrictions as set forth in
        paragraph (b)(3)(B) of the rights in Technical Data and
        Computer Software clause in DAR 7-104.9(a).  This computer
        software is submitted with "restricted rights."  Use,
        duplication or disclosure is subject to the restrictions as
        set forth in NASA FAR SUP 18-52.227-79 (April 1985)
        "Commercial Computer Software-Restricted Rights (April
        1985)."  If the contract contains the Clause at 18-52.227-74
        "Rights in Data General" then the "Alternate III" clause
        applies.

        US Government Users Restricted Rights - Use, duplication or
        disclosure restricted by GSA ADP Schedule Contract.

        Unpublished - All rights reserved under the Copyright Laws
        of the United States.

        This notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this
        data, in whole or in part.

